---
title: UX Content Design's role in accessibility (including alt text, ARIA labels)
description: Explore the role of UX content design in enhancing accessibility, including best practices for alt text and ARIA labels. Learn how to create clear, concise content that aligns with Microsoft’s accessibility standards.
ms.date: 04/17/2023
ms.topic: contributor-guide
ms.service: microsoft-product-style-guide
ms.custom:
  - TopicID 55123
---


# UX Content Design's role in accessibility (including alt text, ARIA labels)

## Things UX content designers do

We follow the [Microsoft Accessibility Standards](https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/sites/accessibility/SitePages/Microsoft-Accessibility-Standards-(MAS).aspx) and complete these related tasks from the [accessibility checklist](/writing-style-guide-msft-internal/checklists/accessibility-checklist) in the Microsoft Writing Style Guide:

- Create concise and clear content in Microsoft’s brand voice and editorial style.
- Write short, descriptive link text that describes the link’s destination.
- Don't use directional terms (below, to the right) as the only clue to location.
- Use verbs that work with any input method.
- Keep UI design simple, make steps clear, and support known reading patterns.
- Use headings to create structure both visually for sighted users and verbally for screen readers via proper use of heading-level text.
- Write any needed tooltips (hover text) aligned to company and Cloud + AI [tooltip guidelines](~\ux-content-design-essentials\tooltip-guidelines.md).

**Note:** Phrases like *See also, View all,* and *Watch it later* are fine to use, as long as they’re being used in inoffensive contexts that otherwise support accessibility. The problem is when we use that language and then fail to provide a way for the person to consume the content.

## Things UX content designers don’t do

Other accessibility tasks and activities are managed by PMs or engineers, accessibility vendors, or generated by automated tools:

- Alt text for all non-text elements.
- ARIA labels (called out by PMs in specs) to bridge areas/elements with accessibility issues and optimize for screen readers.
- Closed-captioning, transcripts, and/or descriptions for audio and video content.
- Headings, tables, and lists (with markup) to organize content.
- Text links in addition to image maps.
- Tooltips are coded to work correctly.

See the [ARIA authoring practices](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.2/#accordion) for more guidance.

